docs/references/api.rst, before:

.. _API:

.. currentmodule:: ross

API Reference
=============

Material
--------
.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/material

    Material

Elements
--------
.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/elements

    ShaftElement
    DiskElement
    BearingElement
    SealElement
    BallBearingElement
    RollerBearingElement
    PlainJournal
    BearingFluidFlow
    MagneticBearingElement
    GearElement
    CouplingElement
    Probe
    PointMass

Rotor and Results
-----------------
Rotor class and available methods for analysis (`run_` methods).

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/rotor

    Rotor
    MultiRotor
    Rotor.run_modal
    Rotor.run_critical_speed
    Rotor.run_freq_response
    Rotor.run_forced_response
    Rotor.run_unbalance_response
    Rotor.run_campbell
    Rotor.run_time_response
    Rotor.run_level1
    Rotor.run_ucs
    Rotor.run_static
    Rotor.run_misalignment
    Rotor.run_rubbing
    Rotor.run_crack

Results
-------
These are classes used to store results and to provide useful methods such as plotting.

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/results

    Orbit
    Shape
    CriticalSpeedResults
    ModalResults
    CampbellResults
    FrequencyResponseResults
    ForcedResponseResults
    StaticResults
    SummaryResults
    ConvergenceResults
    TimeResponseResults
    Level1Results
    UCSResults

Commit message:

Deprecate BearingFluidFlow and improve bearing class guidance
Add deprecation warning to BearingFluidFlow directing users to
PlainJournal for advanced THD analysis or CylindricalBearing for
simple calculations.

Enhance docstrings for PlainJournal and CylindricalBearing to clearly
explain when each class should be used:

- PlainJournal: Advanced THD model with thermal effects, multi-pad
  configurations, turbulence models, and oil starvation/flooding

- CylindricalBearing: Fast analytical model for preliminary design
  and educational purposes with isothermal assumptions

- BearingFluidFlow: Now deprecated as it overlaps with PlainJournal
  but lacks key features like thermal effects and advanced geometries

docs/references/api.rst, after:

.. _API:

.. currentmodule:: ross

API Reference
=============

Material
--------
.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/material

    Material

Elements
--------
.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/elements

    ShaftElement
    DiskElement
    BearingElement
    SealElement
    BallBearingElement
    RollerBearingElement
    CylindricalBearing
    PlainJournal
    TiltingPad
    ThrustPad
    LabyrinthSeal
    HolePatternSeal
    MagneticBearingElement
    GearElement
    CouplingElement
    Probe
    PointMass

Rotor and Results
-----------------
Rotor class and available methods for analysis (`run_` methods).

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/rotor

    Rotor
    MultiRotor
    Rotor.run_modal
    Rotor.run_critical_speed
    Rotor.run_freq_response
    Rotor.run_forced_response
    Rotor.run_unbalance_response
    Rotor.run_campbell
    Rotor.run_time_response
    Rotor.run_level1
    Rotor.run_ucs
    Rotor.run_static
    Rotor.run_misalignment
    Rotor.run_rubbing
    Rotor.run_crack

Results
-------
These are classes used to store results and to provide useful methods such as plotting.

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/results

    Orbit
    Shape
    CriticalSpeedResults
    ModalResults
    CampbellResults
    FrequencyResponseResults
    ForcedResponseResults
    StaticResults
    SummaryResults
    ConvergenceResults
    TimeResponseResults
    Level1Results
    UCSResults

Deprecated Classes
------------------
These classes are deprecated and will be removed in a future version. Use the recommended alternatives instead.

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated/deprecated

    BearingFluidFlow
